We got a question in the class about how
multiple teams may collaborate on a.
And about how fixes work for example.
So I think the base
fund compare these two.
Lets just say client and server exist
as two packages In your mono repo,
traditionally they'd be
independent projects right,
the server would apply effects, the client
would start consuming it or vice versa.
In a mono repo, you have the opportunity
to collaborate on a single branch,
open up a single pull request and
apply a single fix that touches
both packages the same time.
You can validate you can actually have
tests before any part of the fix is
merged.
You can have tests that assert that
they prove the existence of the bug.
And then they start working once the fix
is applied from one commit to the next
which is a great way to have
a high quality bug fix.
So I think that it's an even
better experience there.
The one of the challenges when I think
about big teams working on mono repos.
The big challenge that I see
there is organizational,
where often you want an ownership model,
You would say, Okay,
well, the DBA is they have,
they control the database schemas.
And we have our back end experts.
And they're doing the, you know,
the data science stuff or whatever it is.
And then we have like
the application engineers, and
they're doing the the REST API and
then the web developers doing the UI Right
you want to have like code reviews
happening by the right people and
accountability in place there.
GitHub doesn't really provide
a whole lot like they're,
they don't have that fine grained
sense of, you know, I own this folder.
you own that folder.
They have a concept of code owners, but
it's really a little bit too lightweight.
For for this kind of thing, but
I see that as the big challenge and
just remember that one of
the things you can do for
a large team working on a mono repo,
like one of the best things you can do for
a team in general is ensure
that they have the ability.
To move independently, right?
They are not held back and bottlenecked by
some platform like core team that's just
making sure that everything
passes through them.
So what I see a lot of people do is
they will have their packages.right?
Like our four packages here, and then they
will add a fifth one that effectively is
just; Some people call it
like a meta package or
wrapping package that just serves to
sort of unify everything together.
And so whenever anything changes
a new release of that thing that
sort of the umbrella over the whole thing,
actually i think some people
call it an umbrella package.
But that will be what gets cut,
release gets cut that gets deployed or
published to NPM or whatever it is.
But this ensures that all you need to
worry about is your little sub part and
no matter what, just because of
the way learn a publish works, right?
It doesn't just look at what changed.
It also releases things that
depend on what changed.
If you have that umbrella project,
then, you know that can be sort of this
automated unification where no
matter what changed into place,
like everything kind of comes together.
So you could have UI and
API on equal footing, and
then the whole app as an umbrella.
And you know,
you could have one person make changes and
that'll trigger a release.
And then someone changes the other side
and that would trigger another release.
No one's everyone has the ability to just
sort of make a change, get an approval,
send it out there, and then just make your
test suite good enough that you can have
confidence around that model, which is
a easy thing to say or thing to do.